REQUIREMENTS:

   * Prior to running the examples, you will need to install several packages.
   Follow these instructions:

       https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/resources/software/user_installed/r

   * The packages needed are:

     -- For this R version (check if they are not already installed)

          ml GCC/8.2.0-2.31.1  OpenMPI/3.1.3
          ml R/3.6.0

          Rmpi
          doParallel
          caret
          MASS
          klaR
          nnet
          e1071
          rpart
          mlbench
          parallel
        
Examples for R:
   1) "Serial" folder, a simple "Hello World" example.

   2) "Job-Arrays" folder shows an example for job arrays batch file

   3) In the folder "Rmpi", you can find the R script "Rmpi_1.R" which uses 5
   MPI slaves to apply the runif() function on an array "c". Submit this job
   with "sbatch job_Rmpi_1.sh". As a result, you will see the random numbers
   generated by the slaves in the slurm*out file

   Two other examples for Rmpi are shown in Rmpi_2.R and Rmpi_3.R with the
   corresponding batch jobs job_Rmpi_2.sh and job_Rmpi_3.sh, respectively.

   4) The folder "doParallel" contains two examples:
       -- doParallel.R shows how to use the "foreach" function in sequential mode
       (1 core) and the parallel mode using 4 cores. The differences in the
       call to "foreach" for  are basically:
             --- the cluster initialization: makeCluster, registerDoParallel
             --- the use of %dopar% instead of %do%
          
          submit the job with "sbatch job_doParallel.sh"

       -- doParallel_ML.R presents the evaluation of several ML models in both
       sequential and parallel modes using the standard "iris" database. The 
       difference is basically in the use of %dopar% instead of %do% function. 

          submit the job with "sbatch job_doParallel_ML.sh" 

       Note: If you want to try a different number of cores for running the 
       scripts, you should change that number in both the *.R and *.sh scripts

   5) In the folder "MachineLearning" we show a single ML model using a sonar database
   together with Random Forest. The simulations are done in serial mode and parallel
   mode. You may change the values for the number of cores (4 in the present case) 
   to other values and write down the timings.

   One can monitor the scaling behavior of this script (elapsed time vs. nr. of cores).

